Add flow control well-lit path guide. (#1301)
llm-d/llm-d: guides/flow-control/README.md

# Flow Control

## Overview

> Flow Control enables intelligent request queuing at the gateway level. Traditional load balancing falls short for LLMs because resource consumption varies wildly per request. Shifting queuing to the Endpoint Picker (EPP) enables:

Reviewer: EPP - > llm-d Router, see https://github.com/llm-d/llm-d/pull/1305

> Flow Control enables intelligent request queuing at the gateway level. Traditional load balancing falls short for LLMs because resource consumption varies wildly per request. Shifting queuing to the Endpoint Picker (EPP) enables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flow Control enables intelligent request queuing at the llm-d Router level. Traditional load balancing falls short for LLMs because resource consumption varies wildly per request. Shifting queuing to the Router enables:
```

* **Multi-Tenancy**: Prevent noisy neighbors from starving others and enforce fairness between tenants.
* **No-Regret Scheduling**: Hold requests during peak saturation instead of committing them to a server's local queue where they become stuck.

### How it Works

Incoming requests are classified by a `FlowKey` (Fairness ID + Priority). EPP maintains separate in-memory queues for each flow and dispatches them based on:

1. **Priority**: Servicing highest priority bands first.
2. **Fairness**: Cycling through tenants within a band.
3. **Ordering**: Ordering requests within a flow.

*While Backpressure protects the physical hardware from overload, the Multi-Tenancy policies dictate exactly how that delayed traffic is ordered and distributed among your users.*

> The following diagram illustrates the centralized queuing topology:

Reviewer 2: Mention explicitly that the example illustrated in the digram is what the guide will deploy.

Reviewer 2: it seems in the guide we use a -10 priority for one of the tenants. please also align terms, we use tenant here, but in the guide we are modeling them as qos traffic classes.

```bash
kubectl apply -n ${NAMESPACE} -k guides/recipes/modelserver/components/monitoring
```

## Verification

### 1. Get the IP of the Proxy

**Standalone Mode**

```bash
export IP=$(kubectl get service ${GUIDE_NAME}-epp -n ${NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}')
```

<details>
<summary> <b>Gateway Mode</b> </summary>

```bash
export IP=$(kubectl get gateway llm-d-inference-gateway -n ${NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.status.addresses[0].value}')
```

</details>

### 2. Basic Verification

Check EPP logs for feature gate activation:

```bash
kubectl logs deploy/${GUIDE_NAME}-epp -n ${NAMESPACE} | grep "Flow Control enabled"
```

### 3. Proof of Queuing

To fully verify that queuing and backpressure are working, you must apply concurrent load. We will demonstrate this using a load generation tool in **Use Case 2** below. For now, set up your test environment.

**Open a temporary interactive shell inside the cluster:**

```bash
kubectl run curl-debug --rm -it \
    --image=cfmanteiga/alpine-bash-curl-jq \
    --env="IP=$IP" \
    --env="NAMESPACE=$NAMESPACE" \
    --env="GUIDE_NAME=$GUIDE_NAME" \
    -- /bin/bash
```

**From inside the debug pod, check the metrics:**

```bash

> curl http://${GUIDE_NAME}-epp:9090/metrics | grep inference_extension_flow_control_queue_size

Reviewer: nit: use IP here

    ```bash
    curl -s http://${GUIDE_NAME}-epp:9090/metrics | grep 'inference_extension_flow_control_queue_size{priority="-10"}'
    ```

    *You should see a value greater than 0, proving the requests were safely queued.*

4. **Exit the debug shell** once testing is complete to return to your host terminal:

    ```bash
    exit
    ```

## Production Tuning: Deriving `maxConcurrency`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `maxConcurrency` value of `132` used in this guide is empirically tuned **only** for the default reference workload (Qwen3-32B on 16 H100s). If you use a different model, hardware, or have different prompt lengths, you **must** calculate your own `maxConcurrency` to prevent GPU starvation or OOMs.

For detailed instructions on how to derive the optimal `maxConcurrency` for your specific workload, see the [Tuning Guide](tuning.md).

## Benchmarking

> [!NOTE]
> Benchmarking for flow control requires specialized setups to demonstrate QoS differentiation and fairness. The standard `inference-perf` tool does not yet support multi-tenant slicing of load stages and metrics. Placeholders for detailed benchmarking reports will be added here in a future release.

## Observability

> The Flow Control layer exposes detailed metrics to track queuing dynamics.

Reviewer 2: lets not duplicate metrics docs, please reference the main flow-control docs and avoid repeating here.
